Let's talk about stacks stacks is a type of data structure that you can think of them as plate's that
is we have one piece of data and then another piece of data comes along and gets stacked on top of that
piece of data and it keeps going keeps going keeps going and keeps going.
You can think of it as these plates stacked on top of each other vertically and you can only touch the
top plate.
You can really access anything from the bottom over here the way you can access data from a stack is
to grab the first plate then the second plate then the third and you keep going and you keep going and
you keep going until you've gone through all the stack.
And this is called Life'll or last in first out because the last item that comes in is the first one
that comes up and you're thinking to yourself why is this useful when will we actually use something
like a stack.
They're actually useful in quite a surprising number of ways.
They're very good obviously when you need to know the very last value that was seen or added and stacks
are very important in language specific engines.
You might have heard of something called Stack Overflow a website that a lot of engineers visit and
I'll actually include a bonus video after we talk about cues of how the javascript engine works using
stacks and cues and how you might get stack overflow when you write bad code.
Now most programming languages are modeled with the stack architecture in mind and when functions get
called in a programming language usually they follow this model of last in first out a function within
a function within a function gets called.
And then we start popping those functions until we get to the very beginning and don't worry this is
going to be a little bit more clear when we actually code our own stack.
Another useful way that we might use stacks is such as browser history right where you go back and forth
from one web site to another and then you hit the back button or the front button that's using stacks.
Or maybe you're writing a piece of text and you want to undo something so you can click the undo option
to go back or forward to redo.
Ever wonder how that works.
Well the idea comes from stacks that is you store the previous state over your work and the memory in
such an order that the last one appears first.
This is something that we can do with stacks as you can see over here stacks that usually come with
three types of methods.
There's a few others but these are the main ones.
Pop.
Push and peek pop is removed.
The last item that is removed the plate push is how to plate and peek is simply viewed the top most
play I've added.
Look up in here just to show you that it's big go of ADD because you usually don't want to traverse
through an entire stack but just so you know if we wanted to do that it's going to be a heavy operation.
Let's talk about Q's in the next video.
Buh-Bye.